### DON'T SHOW ANY FRUSTATION, DISAPPOINTMENT OR BOREDOM AT ANY POINT OF THE INTERVIEW.


#### Q.0 : Why there is one year gap after your 12th studies.

ANS:

I completed my 12'th studies in 2020 with a score of 89%.
Because of the covid outbreak that year, my brother who is two year older than me got covid in April 2020.
Since we are a nuclear family, Only me and my mom were present to look after him.
Due to which I was not able prepare well for the JEE Exam that year and We were not ready financially to take admission in a college. 


#### Q.1 : Why do you want to work here/with us?

ANS :

I want to work in this company because I beleive this company has a great learning and growth opportunities.
I'm excited to be part of a team where I can learn and bring fresh ideas to the table.
I think my problem solving and s/w dev skills align perfectly with the job requirement And I can add a great value to your organization.

#### Q.2 : Why should we hire you? What makes you the best candidate?

ANS: How do meet the employers need.

Well, as I Understand it, You're looking for someone who ... 
Go down the job description.

E.g : 

can bring solid technical skills, work well in a team environment, develop mantainable s/w programs and solve problems effectively.

1. With my background in C/C++, web developement, app development and version control system,
   I'm well-prepared to handle challenging tasks and contribute effectively to build meaningful projects. 

2. I think my problem solving and s/w dev skills can add a great value to your organization.

 
---

For anything asked in Interview about any tech-stack.
Give all the info about that & how you have used that in your project(Demonstrate your skills)

Practice your response. / lock urself in a room with a mirror.

Eye contact is important.

---

#### Q.3 : what are your strengths?

ANS :

1. I have a solid foundation in programming languages like C/C++, JavaScript and Dart. And I am familiar with SQL, TypeScript and Python.
   I have a good knowledge on toolkits like VS Code and Android Studio and frameworks like Flutter, Firebase, ReactJS, NodeJS, and NextJS.

2. One of my core strengths is my problem-solving ability. I enjoy breakingdown complex problems into manageable components and devising efficient solutions.
   I take pride in finding innovative ways to solve issues.

3. I'm highly detail-oriented. Whether it's writing clean, well-documentedcode or catching bugs in code reviews.

4. I adapt quickly to new technologies and am constantly improving myskills. Software development is an ever-evolving field, and I stay up todate on best practices, tools, and frameworks to ensure I'm always addingvalue to my team.


---

#### Q.4: What are your Salary Expectations ?

NOTE : Never tell a number. They are trying to eliminate you.

"Well, I would really need more details about the
job expectations before I could answer that."

"Can I ask what is the approved salary range for this position?"

Give a wide salary range (example: 40k-80k)

It's better to tell minimum possible.

---

#### Q.5 : What is you weakness?

NOTE : Don't give a real weakness.

FORMAT :
1. I do... (good)
2. But can lead to. (bad)
3. But then I do. .. (good)

Example answer :

-> My weakness is that, I Strive for Perfection :

"I pay a lot of attention to details, which helps me catch errors and produce high-quality work.

But this can sometimes lead to spending too much time on long tasks because I focus so much on each part.

To manage this, I now break down large tasks into smaller steps and set specific goals for each step. This keeps me on track and helps me see the  bigger picture, too."

-> My weakness is that I Say Yes Too Often :

"I enjoy being helpful and supporting everyone, so I often say 'yes' to new tasks or requests.

But this can sometimes lead to a heavy workload, which makes it hard to prioritize and manage everything.

To handle this, I've been practicing setting boundaries and organizing my tasks more carefully to make sure I can focus on the most important work first."

---

#### Q.6 : Where do you See yourself in 5 years?

"In five years, I see myself growing in this company, taking greater responsibilities, guiding newer team members,
helping with bigger projects and using my skills to make a difference. I'd like to be someone on whom the team can rely on.
Overall, I want to be in a position where I'm taking on more challenges and adding real value to the organization's success."

---

#### Q.7 : What do you know about our company?

ANS : 

    Difference b/w this company and it's competitor.
    Research about the company.
    CEO, product, services, Stocks, competetitors.

---

#### Q.7 : How do you handle stress?

NOTE : You don't have to make this a story.(GIVES A BAD IMAGE) 

Example Ans :

I handle stress very well.

"I've had to stress on occasion, but it has never been a problem in the past

---

#### Q.8 : There are many (Chat-Applications | Radio Apps | Notes Apps) projects available on the Internet. How your project outstand from others ?

ANS :

1. The primary goal of my project was not to create a market-ready product,but to deepen my understanding of software engineering principles.

2. I wanted to explore different aspects like design patterns, efficient data handling, and user experience, along with practical problem-solving and bug resolving skills.

3. Building this project taught me how to tackle real-world issues in coding, debugging and optimizing performance. This hands-on experience helped me to expand my technical skills and prepared me to handle complex s/w dev challenges.

---

#### Q.9 : Suppose you & the (HR/Team Lead/Team member) hate each other, and you have made a huge mistake in the production Codebase. Now how will you deal with it.

ANS :

1. The first thing I would do is immediately take responsibility for the mistake. Next, I would notify my immediate team members and my manager about the issue and depending on the situation,
   I might prioritize rolling back to a previous version or fixing the bug with a hotfix.

2. When it comes to dealing with HR, despite personal conflicts, I would remain calm and professional. I would acknowledge that I made the mistake and ask for guidance on any necessary steps
   to avoid this situation in the future. I would focus on showing that how I can handle problems in a constructive way.

3. At the end, I don't want anyone to dislike me or hold any grudge against me in any situation. Therefore I would also work on establishing a good relation with everyone in my organization.
   As healthy work environment leads to better collaborations. I am an optimistic person and I believe in fostering positive relationships with everyone.

4. I always try to clear any misunderstandings between me and my colleagues. I believe in taking responsibility, even for mistakes that may not be mine, if it helps improve relationships.
   There is a quote that resonates deeply with me: 'Only the one who has life bends, arrogance is the trait of the dead' (झुकता वही है जिसमें जान है, अकड़ना मुर्दे की पहचान है).
   I truly admire this philosophy, and it is an essential part of my approach to life and work.


#### Q.10 : Suppose you and your collegue are working on a same project, Problem is that you two dislike one another, how will you deal with it. 

ANS : 

1. For me project's success is the top priority. I would remain calm and professional. If possible, we could work on separate modules That way, our individual contributions will be clear,
   and we will be not forced into enough interactions. I would respect my colleague's space and make sure to keep interactions formal and task-oriented.

2. At the end, I don't want anyone to dislike me or hold any grudge against me in any situation. I am an optimistic person and I believe in fostering positive relationships with everyone.
   I always try to clear any misunderstandings. I will make effort to build a healthy relation with my collegue, by talking to them b/w breaks, offer him/her my help, give them treats, exchange personal problems and everything which can improve friendship.

3. If the situation escalates or becomes unmanageable, I would consider involving a supervisor or HR for resolving the issue.
   I would ask for support if I felt that the work environment is affecting my productivity.

#### Q.11 : Suppose, In your team two team members dislike/hate each other very much, and they along with you are assigned a common project. How will you handle it.

1. If two team members dislike each other, my focus would be to improve their relationship while ensuring the project's success. 
   I would begin by organizing a casual discussion remind them of our common goal and how teamwork benefits everyone.

2. To foster collaboration, I'd suggest informal team-building activities or shared breaks to create a friendlier atmosphere.
   I'd also acknowledge their strengths and contributions, helping them appreciate each other's value. If needed, I'd guide conversations to resolve misunderstandings.
   My goal would be to build trust and create a supportive environment for effective teamwork.